#  Project 1

+ By: *Rose Mikan*

+  [http://e2p1.metrognome.me](http://e2p1.metrognome.me)

  
##  Game planning
  ###  5x5 Go!
> Basic PHP game simulator inspired by board game 'Snakes and Ladders'*

+ Begin at 0 and Finish by crossing 25 or (25+1) Steps:_
+ Create an array of integers from from 0-25.
+ Alternate Turns are taken by Player1 and Player2 with random values created by conditional statements created from the array 0-25.
+ Players begin at 0 on the array, which has a value of 0.
+ First if statement, will separate an array of odd numbers only. [1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 25].
+ From the odd number array the unique conditions will extend
+ Random numbers from 1-25 will be generated by each player alternately. If no additional conditions player just moves forward random number steps.
+ Only forward or cumulative positive movement as a rule. Exceptions will be the positions that force backward or negative movement and that resets the player position to condition and their forward movement total begins from there.

#### Coding strategies
+ *Assign unique variables to each of the unique position conditional statements for Bonus moves, etc.*

+ Calculate total for each player number of moves to reach 25+1

+ Compare number of moves for each player, player reaches 25++ first wins (true).

+ Run program until winner, game resets or...

+ A more complex score could be, winner gains 100 points and play x amount of rounds for high score. Or play best out of three.

+  Report the results of Player A's moves, Player B's moves, the total for each, and the winner to the page with message statement :).

  

##  Mechanics

+ Each player begins at 0 with 25 total spots on the board
+ For each turn a random number of spots moved
+ The last number spot is captured and previous numbers removed
+ Positive numbers only until completion unless a unique spot updates the condition
+ Unique spots on the board produce additional conditions, some of which may be negative
+ The player that reaches or passes spot 25 first is the winner

  

##  Results

+ Print round one status for Player A, Player B and results for that round which player won, or tie.
+ Unable to integrating the values for unique spots on board yet.
+ Unable to sum the values for each player for each turn.


##  Outside resources

+ https://www.quora.com/How-do-we-link-CSS-files-to-a-PHP-file

  

##  Notes for instructor

+ [sketch 1 idea] (e2p1.metrognome.me/sketch1idea_IMG-3446.jpg)

+ [sketch 2 plan] (e2p1.metrognome.me/sketch2plan_IMG-3447.jpg)

+ [detail 5x5 tele_move] (5x5_forward-backward_game_ai-vector-visual.png)